Business Auto Coverage Form - CA 00 01 03 10
Policy Amendment(s) Commercial Business Auto Coverage Form
 
Various provisions in this policy restrict coverage. Read the entire policy carefully to determine rights, duties and what is and is not covered.
Throughout this policy the words you and your refer to the Named Insured shown in the Declarations. The words we, us and our refer to the company providing this insurance.
Other words and phrases that appear in boldface have special meaning. Refer to Section V - Definitions.
Section I - Covered Autos
Item Two of the Declarations shows the autos that are covered autos for each of your coverages. The follow- ing numerical symbols describe the autos that may be covered autos. The symbols entered next to a coverage on the Declarations designate the only autos that are covered autos.
A.	Description of Covered Auto Designation Symbols Symbol	Description of Covered Auto Desig-
nation Symbols
1.	= ANY AUTO.
2. = OWNED   AUTOS   ONLY.   Only those autos you own (and for Liability Coverage any trailers you don’t own while attached to power units you own). This includes those autos you acquire ownership of after the pol- icy begins.
3.	=	OWNED	PRIVATE	PASSENGER AUTOS ONLY. Only the private passenger autos you own. This includes those private passenger autos you acquire ownership of af- ter the policy begins.
4. = OWNED AUTOS OTHER THAN PRI- VATE PASSENGER AUTOS ONLY. Only those autos you own that are not of the
 
private passenger type (and for Liability Cov- erage any trailers you don’t own while at- tached to power units you own). This includes those autos not of the private pas- senger type you acquire ownership of after the policy begins.
5. = OWNED AUTOS SUBJECT TO NO-FAULT.   Only those autos you own that are required to have no-fault benefits in the state where they are licensed or principally garaged. This includes those autos you ac- quire ownership of after the policy begins provided they are required to have no-fault benefits in the state where they are licensed or principally garaged.
6.	=	OWNED	AUTOS	SUBJECT	TO A COMPULSORY	UNINSURED	MOTOR- ISTS LAW. Only those autos you own that because of the law in the state where they are licensed or principally garaged are required to have and cannot reject Uninsured Motorists Coverage. This includes those autos you ac- quire ownership of after the policy begins provided they are subject to the same state uninsured motorists requirement.
7.	= SPECIFICALLY DESCRIBED AUTOS. Only those autos described in Item Three of the Declarations for which a premium charge is shown (and for Liability Coverage any trailers you don’t own while attached to any power unit described in Item Three).
8.    =   HIRED AUTOS   ONLY.   Only those au- tos you lease, hire, rent or borrow. This does not include any auto you lease, hire, rent or borrow from any of your employees, partners (if you are a partnership), members (if you are a limited liability company) or members of their households but only while used in your business or your personal affairs.
 
This Form  must be attached to Change Endorsement when issued after the policy is written. One of the Fireman’s Fund Insurance Companies as named in the policy
Secretary	President
 
9. =   NON-OWNED   AUTOS   ONLY.   Only those autos you do not own, lease, hire, rent or borrow that are used in connection with your business. This includes autos owned by your employees, partners (if you are a part- nership), members (if you are a limited liabil- ity company) or members of their households but only while used in your business or your personal affairs.
19. = MOBILE EQUIPMENT SUBJECT TO COMPULSORY OR FINANCIAL RE- SPONSIBILITY OR OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE INSURANCE   LAW   ONLY. Only those autos that are land vehicles and that would qualify under the definition of mobile equipment under this policy if they were not subject to a compulsory or financial responsibility law or other motor vehicle in- surance law where they are licensed or princi- pally garaged.
B.	Owned Autos You Acquire After the Policy Begins
1.	If symbols 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 19 are entered next to a coverage in Item Two of the Decla- rations, then you have coverage for autos that you acquire of the type described for the re- mainder of the policy period.
2.	But, if Symbol 7 is entered next to a coverage in Item Two of the Declarations, an auto you acquire will be a covered auto for that cover- age only if:
a.	We already cover all autos that you own for that coverage or it replaces an auto you previously owned that had that cov- erage; and
b.	You tell us within 30 days after you ac- quire it that you want us to cover it for that coverage.
C.	Certain Trailers, Mobile Equipment and Tempo- rary Substitute Autos
If Liability Coverage is provided by this coverage form, the following types of vehicles are also cov- ered autos for Liability Coverage:
1.	Trailers with a load capacity of 2,000 pounds or less designed primarily for travel on public roads.
2.	Mobile equipment while being carried or towed by a covered auto.
 
3.	Any auto you do not own while used with the permission of its owner as a temporary sub- stitute for a covered auto you own that is out of service because of its:
a.	Breakdown;
b.	Repair;
c.	Servicing;
d.	Loss; or
e.	Destruction.
Section II - Liability Coverage
A.	Coverage
We will pay all sums an insured legally must pay as damages because of bodily injury or property damage to which this insurance applies, caused by an accident and resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use of a covered auto.
We will also pay all sums an insured legally must pay as a covered pollution cost or expense to which this insurance applies, caused by an accident and resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use of covered autos.   However, we will only pay for the covered pollution cost or expense if there is ei- ther bodily injury or property damage to which this insurance applies that is caused by the same acci- dent.
We have the right and duty to defend any insured against a suit asking for such damages or a covered pollution cost or expense . However, we have no duty to defend any insured against a suit seeking damages for bodily injury or property damage or a covered pollution cost or expense to which this in- surance does not apply. We may investigate and settle any claim or suit as we consider appropriate. Our duty to defend or settle ends when the Li- ability Coverage Limit of Insurance has been ex- hausted by payment of judgments or settlements.
1.	Who Is an Insured
The following are insureds:
a.	You for any covered auto.
b.	Anyone else while using with your per- mission a covered auto you own, hire or borrow except:
(1)	The owner or anyone else from whom you hire or borrow a covered
 
auto.   This exception does not apply if the covered auto is a trailer con- nected to a covered auto you own.
(2)	Your employee if the covered auto is owned by that employee or a member of his or her household.
(3)	Someone using a covered auto while he or she is working in a business of selling, servicing, repairing, park- ing or storing autos unless that bu- siness is yours.
(4)	Anyone other than your employees, partners (if you are a partnership), members (if you are a limited liabil- ity company) or a lessee or borrower or any of their employees, while moving property to or from a cov- ered auto.
(5)	A partner (if you are a partnership) or a member (if you are a limited li- ability company) for a covered auto owned by him or her or a member of his or her household.
c.	Anyone liable for the conduct of an in- sured described above but only to the extent of that liability.
2.	Coverage Extensions
a.	Supplementary Payments We will pay for the insured:
(1)	All expenses we incur.
(2)	Up to $2,000 for cost of bail bonds (including bonds for related traffic law violations) required because of an accident we cover. We do not have to furnish these bonds.
(3)	The cost of bonds to release attach- ments in any suit against the insured we defend, but only for bond amounts within our Limit of Insur- ance.
(4)	All reasonable expenses incurred by the insured at our request, including actual loss of earnings up to $250 a day because of time off from work.
 
(5)	All court costs taxed against the in- sured in any suit against the insured we defend. However, these pay- ments do not include attorneys’ fees or attorneys’ expenses taxed against the insured.
(6)	All interest on the full amount of any judgment that accrues after en- try of the judgment in any suit against the insured we defend, but our duty to pay interest ends when we have paid, offered to pay or de- posited in court the part of the judgment that is within our Limit of Insurance.
These payments will not reduce the Limit of Insurance.
b.	Out-of-state Coverage Extensions
While a covered auto is away from the state where it is licensed we will:
(1)	Increase the Limit of Insurance for Liability Coverage to meet the limits specified by a compulsory or finan- cial responsibility law of the juris- diction where the covered auto is being used. This extension does not apply to the limit or limits specified by any law governing motor carriers of passengers or property.
(2)	Provide the minimum amounts and types of other coverages, such as no-fault, required of out-of-state ve- hicles by the jurisdiction where the covered auto is being used.
We will not pay anyone more than once for the same elements of loss because of these extensions.
B.	Exclusions
This insurance does not apply to any of the fol- lowing:
1.	Expected or Intended Injury
Bodily injury or property damage expected or intended from the standpoint of the insured.
 
2.	Contractual
Liability assumed under any contract or agreement.
But this exclusion does not apply to liability for damages:
a.	Assumed in a contract or agreement that is an insured contract provided the bodily injury or property damage occurs subse- quent to the execution of the contract or agreement; or
b.	That the insured would have in the ab- sence of the contract or agreement.
3.	Workers’ Compensation
Any obligation for which the insured or the insured’s insurer may be held liable under any workers’ compensation, disability benefits or unemployment compensation law or any si- milar law.
4.	Employee Indemnification and Employer’s Liability
Bodily injury to:
a.	An employee of the insured arising out of and in the course of:
(1)	Employment by the insured; or
(2)	Performing the duties related to the conduct of the insured’s business; or
b.	The spouse, child, parent, brother or sis- ter of that employee as a consequence of Paragraph a. above.
This exclusion applies:
(1)	Whether the insured may be liable as an employer or in any other ca- pacity; and
(2)	To any obligation to share damages with or repay someone else who must pay damages because of the injury.
But this exclusion does not apply to bodily injury to domestic employees not entitled to workers’ compensation benefits or to liability assumed by the insured under an insured con- tract. For the purposes of the coverage form, a domestic employee is a person engaged in
 
household or domestic work performed prin- cipally in connection with a residence prem- ises.
5.	Fellow Employee
Bodily injury to:
a.	Any fellow employee of the insured aris- ing out of and in the course of the fellow employee’s employment or while per- forming duties related to the conduct of your business; or
b.	The spouse, child, parent, brother or sis- ter of that fellow employee as a conse- quence of Paragraph a. above.
6.	Care, Custody or Control
Property damage to or covered pollution cost or expense involving property owned or transported by the insured or in the insured’s care, custody or control. But this exclusion does not apply to liability assumed under a sidetrack agreement.
7.	Handling of Property
Bodily injury or property damage resulting from the handling of property:
a.	Before it is moved from the place where it is accepted by the insured for move- ment into or onto the covered auto; or
b.	After it is moved from the covered auto to the place where it is finally delivered by the insured.
8.	Movement of Property by Mechanical Device
Bodily injury or property damage resulting from the movement of property by a me- chanical device (other than a hand truck) un- less the device is attached to the covered auto.
9.	Operations
Bodily injury or property damage arising out of the operation of:
a.	Any equipment listed in Paragraphs 6.b. and 6.c. of the definition of mobile equipment; or
b.	Machinery or equipment that is on, at- tached to or part of a land vehicle that
 
would qualify under the definition of mobile equipment if it were not subject to a compulsory or financial responsibility law or other motor vehicle insurance law where it is licensed or principally garaged.
10.	Completed Operations
Bodily injury or property damage arising out of your work after that work has been com- pleted or abandoned.
In this exclusion, your work means:
a.	Work or operations performed by you or on your behalf; and
b.	Materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or oper- ations.
Your work includes warranties or representa- tions made at any time with respect to the fitness, quality, durability or performance of any of the items included in Paragraph a. or
b. above.
Your work will be deemed completed at the earliest of the following times:
(1)	When all of the work called for in your contract has been completed.
(2)	When all of the work to be done at the site has been completed if your contract calls for work at more than one site.
(3)	When that part of the work done at a job site has been put to its intended use by any person or or- ganization other than another con- tractor or subcontractor working on the same project.
Work that may need service, mainte- nance, correction, repair or replacement, but which is otherwise complete, will be treated as completed.
11.	Pollution
Bodily injury or property damage arising out of the actual, alleged or threatened discharge, dispersal, seepage, migration, release or escape of pollutants:
 
a.	That are, or that are contained in any property that is:
(1)	Being transported or towed by, handled or handled for movement into, onto or from the covered auto;
(2)	Otherwise in the course of transit by or on behalf of the insured; or
(3)	Being stored, disposed of, treated or processed in or upon the covered auto;
b.	Before the pollutants or any property in which the pollutants are contained are moved from the place where they are ac- cepted by the insured for movement into or onto the covered auto; or
c.	After the pollutants or any property in which the pollutants are contained are moved from the covered auto to the place where they are finally delivered, disposed of or abandoned by the insured.
Paragraph a. above does not apply to fuels, lubricants, fluids, exhaust gases or other simi- lar pollutants that are needed for or result from the normal electrical, hydraulic or me- chanical functioning of the covered auto or its parts, if:
(1)	The pollutants escape, seep, migrate or are discharged, dispersed or re- leased directly from an auto part de- signed by its manufacturer to hold, store, receive or dispose of such pollutants; and
(2)	The bodily injury, property damage or covered pollution cost or expense does not arise out of the operation of any equipment listed in Para- graphs 6.b. and 6.c. of the definition of mobile equipment.
Paragraphs b. and c. above of this exclu- sion do not apply to accidents that occur away from premises owned by or rented to an insured with respect to pollutants not in or upon a covered auto if:
(a)	The pollutants or any property in which the pollutants are contained are upset, overturned
 
12.	War
 
or damaged as a result of the maintenance or use of a covered auto; and
(a)	The discharge, dispersal, seep- age, migration, release or escape of the pollutants is caused di- rectly by such upset, overturn or damage.
 
endorsement or Underinsured Motorists Coverage endorsement attached to this Coverage Part.
Section III - Physical Damage Coverage
A.	Coverage
1.	We will pay for loss to a covered auto or its equipment under:
a.	Comprehensive Coverage
 
Bodily injury or property damage arising di- rectly or indirectly out of:
a.	War, including undeclared or civil war;
b.	Warlike action by a military force, in- cluding action in hindering or defending against an actual or expected attack, by any government, sovereign or other au- thority using military personnel or other agents; or
c.	Insurrection, rebellion, revolution, usu- rped power or action taken by govern- mental authority in hindering or defending against any of these.
13. Racing
Covered autos while used in any professional or organized racing or demolition contest or stunting activity, or while practicing for such contest or activity.   This insurance also does not apply while that covered auto is being prepared for such a contest or activity.
C.	Limit of Insurance
Regardless of the number of covered autos, in- sureds, premiums paid, claims made or vehicles involved in the accident, the most we will pay for the total of all damages and covered pollution cost or expense combined resulting from any one acci- dent is the Limit of Insurance for Liability Cover- age shown in the Declarations.
All bodily injury, property damage and covered pollution cost or expense resulting from continuous or repeated exposure to substantially the same conditions will be considered as resulting from one accident.
No one will be entitled to receive duplicate pay- ments for the same elements of loss under this coverage form and any Medical Payments Cover- age endorsement, Uninsured Motorists Coverage
 
From any cause except:
(1)	The covered auto’s collision with another object; or
(2)	The covered auto’s overturn.
b.	Specified Causes of Loss Coverage Caused by:
(1)	Fire, lightning or explosion;
(2)	Theft;
(3)	Windstorm, hail or earthquake;
(4)	Flood;
(5)	Mischief or vandalism; or
(6)	The sinking, burning, collision or derailment of any conveyance trans- porting the covered auto.
c.	Collision Coverage Caused by:
(1)	The covered auto’s collision with another object; or
(2)	The covered auto’s overturn.
2.	Towing
We will pay up to the limit shown in the Declarations for towing and labor costs in- curred each time a covered auto of the private passenger type is disabled. However, the la- bor must be performed at the place of disa- blement.
3.	Glass Breakage - Hitting a Bird or Animal - Falling Objects or Missiles
If you carry Comprehensive Coverage for the damaged covered auto, we will pay for the following under Comprehensive Coverage:
 
a.	Glass breakage;
b.	Loss caused by hitting a bird or animal; and
c.	Loss caused by falling objects or missiles.
However, you have the option of having glass breakage caused by a covered auto’s collision or overturn considered a loss under Collision Coverage.
4.	Coverage Extensions
a.	Transportation Expenses
We will pay up to $20 per day to a max- imum of $600 for temporary transporta- tion expense incurred by you because of the total theft of a covered auto of the private passenger type. We will pay only for those covered autos for which you carry either Comprehensive or Specified Causes Of Loss Coverage.   We will pay for temporary transportation expenses incurred during the period beginning 48 hours after the theft and ending, regard- less of the policy’s expiration, when the covered auto is returned to use or we pay for its loss.
b.	Loss of Use Expenses
For Hired Auto Physical Damage, we will pay expenses for which an insured becomes legally responsible to pay for loss of use of a vehicle rented or hired without a driver under a written rental contract or agreement. We will pay for loss of use expenses if caused by:
(1)	Other than collision only if the Declarations indicate that Compre- hensive Coverage is provided for any covered auto;
(2)	Specified Causes Of Loss only if the Declarations indicate that Specified Causes Of Loss Coverage is pro- vided for any covered auto; or
(3)	Collision only if the Declarations indicate that Collision Coverage is provided for any covered auto.
However, the most we will pay for any expenses for loss of use is $20 per day, to a maximum of $600.
 
B.	Exclusions
1.	We will not pay for loss caused by or resulting from any of the following. Such loss is ex- cluded regardless of any other cause or event that contributes concurrently or in any se- quence to the loss.
a.	Nuclear Hazard
(1)	The explosion of any weapon em- ploying atomic fission or fusion; or
(2)	Nuclear reaction or radiation, or ra- dioactive contamination, however caused.
b.	War or Military Action
(1)	War, including undeclared or civil war;
(2)	Warlike action by a military force, including action in hindering or de- fending against an actual or expected attack, by any government, sover- eign or other authority using mili- tary personnel or other agents; or
(3)	Insurrection, rebellion, revolution, usurped power or action taken by governmental authority in hindering or defending against any of these.
2.	We will not pay for loss to any covered auto while used in any professional or organized racing or demolition contest or stunting ac- tivity, or while practicing for such contest or activity. We will also not pay for loss to any covered auto while that covered auto is being prepared for such a contest or activity.
3.	We will not pay for loss due and confined to:
a.	Wear and tear, freezing, mechanical or electrical breakdown.
b.	Blowouts, punctures or other road dam- age to tires.
This exclusion does not apply to such loss resulting from the total theft of a covered auto.
4.	We will not pay for loss to any of the follow- ing:
 
a.	Tapes, records, discs or other similar au- dio, visual or data electronic devices designed for use with audio, visual or data electronic equipment.
b.	Any device designed or used to detect speed-measuring equipment such as ra- dar or laser detectors and any jamming apparatus intended to elude or disrupt speed-measurement equipment.
c.	Any electronic equipment, without re- gard to whether this equipment is per- manently installed, that reproduces, receives or transmits audio, visual or data signals.
d.	Any accessories used with the electronic equipment described in Paragraph c. above.
5.	Exclusions 4.c. and 4.d. do not apply to equipment designed to be operated solely by use of the power from the auto’s electrical system that, at the time of loss, is:
a.	Permanently installed in or upon the covered auto;
b.	Removable from a housing unit which is permanently installed in or upon the covered auto;
c.	An integral part of the same unit housing any electronic equipment described in Paragraphs a. and b. above; or
d.	Necessary for the normal operation of the covered auto or the monitoring of the covered auto’s operating system.
6.	We will not pay for loss to a covered auto due to diminution in value.
C.	Limit of Insurance
1.	The most we will pay for loss in any one ac- cident is the lesser of:
a.	The actual cash value of the damaged or stolen property as of the time of the loss; or
b.	The cost of repairing or replacing the damaged or stolen property with other property of like kind and quality.
 
2.	$1,000 is the most we will pay for loss in any one accident to all electronic equipment that reproduces, receives or transmits audio, visual or data signals which, at the time of loss, is:
a.	Permanently installed in or upon the covered auto in a housing, opening or other location that is not normally used by the auto manufacturer for the instal- lation of such equipment;
b.	Removable from a permanently installed housing unit as described in Paragraph
2.a. above or is an integral part of that equipment; or
c.	An integral part of such equipment.
3.	An adjustment for depreciation and physical condition will be made in determining actual cash value in the event of a total loss.
4.	If a repair or replacement results in better than like kind or quality, we will not pay for the amount of the betterment.
D.	Deductible
For each covered auto, our obligation to pay for, repair, return or replace damaged or stolen prop- erty will be reduced by the applicable deductible shown in the Declarations. Any Comprehensive Coverage deductible shown in the Declarations does not apply to loss caused by fire or lightning.
Section IV - Business Auto Conditions
The following conditions apply in addition to the Common Policy Conditions:
A.	Loss Conditions
1.	Appraisal for Physical Damage Loss
If you and we disagree on the amount of loss, either may demand an appraisal of the loss. In this event, each party will select a competent appraiser. The two appraisers will select a competent and impartial umpire. The appraisers will state separately the actual cash value and amount of loss. If they fail to agree, they will submit their differences to the um- pire. A decision agreed to by any two will be binding. Each party will:
a.	Pay its chosen appraiser; and
 
b.	Bear the other expenses of the appraisal and umpire equally.
If we submit to an appraisal, we will still re- tain our right to deny the claim.
2.	Duties in the Event of Accident, Claim, Suit or Loss
We have no duty to provide coverage under this policy unless there has been full compli- ance with the following duties:
a.	In the event of accident, claim, suit or loss, you must give us or our authorized representative prompt notice of the acci- dent or loss. Include:
(1)	How, when and where the accident
or loss occurred;
(2)	The insured’s name and address; and
(3)	To the extent possible, the names and addresses of any injured persons and witnesses.
b.	Additionally, you and any other involved
insured must:
(1)	Assume no obligation, make no payment or incur no expense with- out our consent, except at the in- sured’s own cost.
(2)	Immediately send us copies of any request, demand, order, notice, summons or legal paper received concerning the claim or suit.
(3)	Cooperate with us in the investi- gation or settlement of the claim or defense against the suit.
(4)	Authorize us to obtain medical re- cords or other pertinent information.
(5)	Submit to examination, at our ex- pense, by physicians of our choice, as often as we reasonably require.
c.	If there is loss to a covered auto or its equipment you must also do the follow- ing:
(1)	Promptly notify the police if the covered auto or any of its equipment is stolen.
 
(2)	Take all reasonable steps to protect the covered auto from further dam- age. Also keep a record of your expenses for consideration in the settlement of the claim.
(3)	Permit us to inspect the covered auto and records proving the loss before its repair or disposition.
(4)	Agree to examinations under oath at our request and give us a signed statement of your answers.
3.	Legal Action Against Us
No one may bring a legal action against us under this coverage form until:
a.	There has been full compliance with all the terms of this coverage form; and
b.	Under Liability Coverage, we agree in writing that the insured has an obligation to pay or until the amount of that obli- gation has finally been determined by judgment after trial. No one has the right under this policy to bring us into an ac- tion to determine the insured’s liability.
4.	Loss Payment - Physical Damage Coverages At our option we may:
a.	Pay for, repair or replace damaged or stolen property;
b.	Return the stolen property, at our ex- pense. We will pay for any damage that results to the auto from the theft; or
c.	Take all or any part of the damaged or stolen property at an agreed or appraised value.
If we pay for the loss, our payment will in- clude the applicable sales tax for the damaged or stolen property.
5.	Transfer of Rights of Recovery Against Oth- ers to Us
If any person or organization to or for whom we make payment under this coverage form has rights to recover damages from another, those rights are transferred to us. That person or organization must do everything necessary
 
to secure our rights and must do nothing after
accident or loss to impair them.
B.	General Conditions
1.	Bankruptcy
Bankruptcy or insolvency of the insured or the insured’s estate will not relieve us of any obligations under this coverage form.
2.	Concealment, Misrepresentation or Fraud
This coverage form is void in any case of fraud by you at any time as it relates to this coverage form. It is also void if you or any other insured, at any time, intentionally con- ceal or misrepresent a material fact concern- ing:
a.	This coverage form;
b.	The covered auto;
c.	Your interest in the covered auto; or
d.	A claim under this coverage form.
3.	Liberalization
If we revise this coverage form to provide more coverage without additional premium charge, your policy will automatically provide the additional coverage as of the day the re- vision is effective in your state.
4.	No Benefit to Bailee - Physical Damage Coverages
We will not recognize any assignment or grant any coverage for the benefit of any person or organization holding, storing or transporting property for a fee regardless of any other pro- vision of this coverage form.
5.	Other Insurance
a.	For any covered auto you own, this coverage form provides primary insur- ance. For any covered auto you don’t own, the insurance provided by this cov- erage form is excess over any other col- lectible insurance. However, while a covered auto which is a trailer is con- nected to another vehicle, the Liability Coverage this coverage form provides for the trailer is:
 
(1)	Excess while it is connected to a motor vehicle you do not own.
(2)	Primary while it is connected to a covered auto you own.
b.	For Hired Auto Physical Damage Cov- erage, any covered auto you lease, hire, rent or borrow is deemed to be a covered auto you own. However, any auto that is leased, hired, rented or borrowed with a driver is not a covered auto.
c.	Regardless of the provisions of Paragraph
a. above, this coverage form’s Liability Coverage is primary for any liability as- sumed under an insured contract .
d.	When this coverage form and any other coverage form or policy covers on the same basis, either excess or primary, we will pay only our share. Our share is the proportion   that the Limit of Insurance of our coverage form bears to the total of the limits of all the coverage forms and policies covering on the same basis.
6.	Premium Audit
a.	The estimated premium for this coverage form is based on the exposures you told us you would have when this policy be- gan. We will compute the final premium due when we determine your actual ex- posures. The estimated total premium will be credited against the final premium due and the first Named Insured will be billed for the balance, if any. The due date for the final premium or retrospec- tive premium is the date shown as the due date on the bill. If the estimated to- tal premium exceeds the final premium due, the first Named Insured will get a refund.
b.	If this policy is issued for more than one year, the premium for this coverage form will be computed annually based on our rates or premiums in effect at the begin- ning of each year of the policy.
7.	Policy Period, Coverage Territory
Under this coverage form, we cover accidents
and losses occurring:
 
a.	During the policy period shown in the Declarations; and
b.	Within the coverage territory. The coverage territory is:
(1)	The United States of America;
(2)	The territories and possessions of the United States of America;
(3)	Puerto Rico;
(4)	Canada; and
(5)	Anywhere in the world if:
(a)	A covered auto of the private passenger type is leased, hired, rented or borrowed without a driver for a period of 30 days or less; and
(b)	The insured’s responsibility to pay damages is determined in a suit on the merits, in the United States of America, the territo- ries and possessions of the United States of America, Puerto Rico or Canada or in a settlement we agree to.
We also cover loss to, or accidents involving, a covered auto while being transported be- tween any of these places.
8.	Two or More Coverage Forms or Policies Is- sued by Us
If this coverage form and any other coverage form or policy issued to you by us or any company affiliated with us applies to the same accident, the aggregate maximum Limit of Insurance under all the coverage forms or policies shall not exceed the highest applicable Limit of Insurance under any one coverage form or policy. This condition does not apply to any coverage form or policy issued by us or an affiliated company specifically to apply as excess insurance over this coverage form.
Section V - Definitions
A.	Accident includes continuous or repeated exposure to the same conditions resulting in bodily injury or property damage.
B.	Auto means:
 
1.	A land motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer designed for travel on public roads; or
2.	Any other land vehicle that is subject to a compulsory or financial responsibility law or other motor vehicle insurance law where it is licensed or principally garaged.
However, auto does not include mobile equipment.
C.	Bodily injury means bodily injury, sickness or dis- ease sustained by a person including death result- ing from any of these.
D.	Covered pollution cost or expense means any cost or expense arising out of:
1.	Any request, demand, order or statutory or regulatory requirement that any insured or others test for, monitor, clean up, remove, contain, treat, detoxify or neutralize, or in any way respond to, or assess the effects of, pol- lutants ; or
2.	Any claim or suit by or on behalf of a gov- ernmental authority for damages because of testing for, monitoring, cleaning up, remov- ing, containing, treating, detoxifying or neu- tralizing, or in any way responding to, or assessing the effects of, pollutants.
Covered pollution cost or expense does not include any cost or expense arising out of the actual, al- leged or threatened discharge, dispersal, seepage, migration, release or escape of pollutants:
a.	That are, or that are contained in any prop- erty that is:
(1)	Being transported or towed by, handled or handled for movement into, onto or from the covered auto;
(2)	Otherwise in the course of transit by or on behalf of the insured; or
(3)	Being stored, disposed of, treated or pro- cessed in or upon  the covered auto;
b.	Before the pollutants or any property in which the pollutants are contained are moved from the place where they are accepted by the insured for movement into or onto the cov- ered auto; or
c.	After the pollutants or any property in which the pollutants are contained are moved from
 
the covered auto to the place where they are finally delivered, disposed of or abandoned by the insured.
Paragraph a. above does not apply to fuels, lubri- cants, fluids, exhaust gases or other similar pollutants that are needed for or result from the normal electrical, hydraulic or mechanical func- tioning of the covered auto or its parts, if:
(1)	The pollutants escape, seep, migrate or are discharged, dispersed or released di- rectly from an auto part designed by its manufacturer to hold, store, receive or dispose of such pollutants; and
(2)	The bodily injury, property damage or covered pollution cost or expense does not arise out of the operation of any equipment listed in Paragraph 6.b. or 6.c. of the definition of mobile equipment.
Paragraphs b. and c. above do not apply to accidents that occur away from premises owned by or rented to an insured with respect to pollutants not in or upon a covered auto if:
(a)	The pollutants or any property in which the pollutants are contained are upset, overturned or damaged as a result of the maintenance or use of a covered auto; and
(b)	The discharge, dispersal, seepage, migration, release or escape of the pollutants is caused directly by such upset, overturn or damage.
E.	Diminution in value means the actual or perceived loss in market value or resale value which results from a direct and accidental loss.
F.	Employee includes a leased worker. Employee does not include a temporary worker.
G.	Insured means any person or organization quali- fying as an insured in the Who Is An Insured provision of the applicable coverage. Except with respect to the Limit of Insurance, the coverage af- forded applies separately to each insured who is seeking coverage or against whom a claim or suit is brought.
H.	Insured contract means:
1.	A lease of premises;
 
2.	A sidetrack agreement;
3.	Any easement or license agreement, except in connection with construction or demolition operations on or within 50 feet of a railroad;
4.	An obligation, as required by ordinance, to indemnify a municipality, except in con- nection with work for a municipality;
5.	That part of any other contract or agreement pertaining to your business (including an in- demnification of a municipality in connection with work performed for a municipality) un- der which you assume the tort liability of an- other to pay for bodily injury or property damage to a third party or organization. Tort liability means a liability that would be im- posed by law in the absence of any contract or agreement.
6.	That part of any contract or agreement en- tered into, as part of your business, pertaining to the rental or lease, by you or any of your employees, of any auto. However, such con- tract or agreement shall not be considered an insured contract to the extent that it obligates you or any of your employees to pay for property damage to any auto rented or leased by you or any of your employees.
An insured contract does not include that part of any contract or agreement:
a.	That indemnifies a railroad for bodily injury or property damage arising out of construction or demolition operations, within 50 feet of any railroad property and affecting any railroad bridge or tres- tle, tracks, roadbeds, tunnel, underpass or crossing;
b.	That pertains to the loan, lease or rental of an auto to you or any of your em- ployees, if the auto is loaned, leased or rented with a driver; or
c.	That holds a person or organization en- gaged in the business of transporting property by auto for hire harmless for your use of a covered auto over a route or territory that person or organization is authorized to serve by public authority.
I.	Leased worker means a person leased to you by a labor leasing firm under an agreement between you and the labor leasing firm to perform duties related
 
to the conduct of your business.   Leased worker
does not include a temporary worker.
J.	Loss means direct and accidental loss or damage.
K.	Mobile equipment means any of the following types of land vehicles, including any attached ma- chinery or equipment:
1.	Bulldozers, farm machinery, forklifts and other vehicles designed for use principally off public roads;
2.	Vehicles maintained for use solely on or next to premises you own or rent;
3.	Vehicles that travel on crawler treads;
4.	Vehicles, whether self-propelled or not, maintained primarily to provide mobility to permanently mounted:
a.	Power cranes, shovels, loaders, diggers or drills; or
b.	Road construction or resurfacing equip- ment such as graders, scrapers or rollers;
5.	Vehicles not described in Paragraph 1., 2., 3. or 4. above that are not self-propelled and are maintained primarily to provide mobility to permanently attached equipment of the fol- lowing types:
a.	Air compressors, pumps and generators, including spraying, welding, building cle- aning, geophysical exploration, lighting and well-servicing equipment; or
b.	Cherry pickers and similar devices used to raise or lower workers; or
6.	Vehicles not described in Paragraph 1., 2., 3. or 4. above maintained primarily for purposes other than the transportation of persons or cargo. However, self-propelled vehicles with the following types of permanently attached equipment are not mobile equipment but will be considered autos:
a.	Equipment designed primarily for:
(1)	Snow removal;
(2)	Road maintenance, but not con- struction or resurfacing; or
 
(3)	Street cleaning;
b.	Cherry pickers and similar devices mounted on automobile or truck chassis and used to raise or lower workers; and
c.	Air compressors, pumps and generators, including spraying, welding, building cle- aning, geophysical exploration, lighting or well-servicing equipment.
However, mobile equipment does not include land vehicles that are subject to a compulsory or finan- cial responsibility law or other motor vehicle in- surance law where it is licensed or principally garaged.   Land vehicles subject to a compulsory or financial responsibility law or other motor ve- hicle insurance law are considered autos.
L.	Pollutants means any solid, liquid, gaseous or thermal irritant or contaminant, including smoke, vapor, soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, chemicals and waste. Waste includes materials to be recycled, reconditioned or reclaimed.
M.	Property damage means damage to or loss of use of tangible property.
N.	Suit means a civil proceeding in which:
1.	Damages because of bodily injury or property damage; or
2.	A covered pollution cost or expense ;
to which this insurance applies, are alleged.
Suit includes:
a.	An arbitration proceeding in which such damages or covered pollution costs or expenses are claimed and to which the insured must submit or does submit with our consent; or
b.	Any other alternative dispute resolution pro- ceeding in which such damages or covered pollution costs or expenses are claimed and to which the insured submits with our consent.
O.	Temporary worker means a person who is fur- nished to you to substitute for a permanent em- ployee on leave or to meet seasonal or short-term workload conditions.
P.	Trailer includes semitrailer.