efgh ijkl
Automobile Policy Booklet from Travelers
 
.
 
YOUR PERSONAL AUTO POLICY QUICK REFERENCE
	DECLARATIONS PAGE
Your Name and Address Your Auto or Trailer Policy Period
Coverages and Amounts of Insurance
Beginning On Page
AGREEMENT		1
DEFINITIONS		1
LIABILITY	Insuring Agreement	2 Supplementary Payments	2 Exclusions	2 Limit of Liability	3 Out of State Coverage	4 Financial Responsibility	4 Other Insurance	4
MEDICAL PAYMENTS	Insuring Agreement	4 Exclusions	5 Limit of Liability	5 Other Insurance	5
UNINSURED MOTORISTS	Insuring Agreement	6 Exclusions	6 Limit of Liability	7 Other Insurance	7 Arbitration	7
DAMAGE TO YOUR AUTO	Insuring Agreement	8 Transportation Expenses	9 Exclusions	9 Limit of Liability	10 Payment of Loss	10 Loss Payable Clause	10 No Benefit to Bailee	10 Other Insurance	10 Appraisal	10
DUTIES AFTER AN ACCIDENT OR LOSS	General Duties	11 Additional Duties for Uninsured Motorists Coverage	11 Additional Duties for Collision and Comprehensive
Coverages	11
GENERAL PROVISIONS	Bankruptcy	11 Changes	11
Fraud		11 Legal Action Against Us		11 Our Right to Recover Payment		12 Policy Period and Territory		12 Termination		12 Transfer of your Interest in this Policy		13 Two or More Auto Policies		13
Edition 6 of Policy Forms 101 and LP
 
.
 
PERSONAL AUTO POLICY
Travelers Property Casualty Companies
Hartford, Connecticut
(Each a Stock Insurance Company)
AGREEMENT
In return for payment of the premium and subject to all the terms of this policy, we will provide the coverages you have selected. These are shown by premium entries in the Declarations. The Declarations is a part of this policy.
DEFINITIONS
A.	Throughout this policy, "you" and "your" refer	I.	"Trailer" means a vehicle designed to be pulled to:		by a:
1.	The "named insured" shown in the Declara-	1. Private passenger auto; or tions; and	2. Pickup or van.
2.	The spouse if a resident of the same
 
household.
 
It also means a farm wagon or farm implement while towed by a vehicle listed in 1. or 2. above.
 
B.	"We", "us" and "our" refer to the Company shown in the Declarations providing this in-
surance.	1.   Any vehicle shown in the Declarations.
 
C.	For purposes of this policy, a private passenger type auto shall be deemed to be owned by a
 
2.	Any of the following types of vehicles on the date you become the owner:
 
person if leased:	a.   a private passenger auto; or
1.	Under a written agreement to that person;	b. a pickup or van. and
This provision (J.2.) applies only if:
2.	For a continuous period of at least 6	a. you acquire the vehicle during the months.		policy period;
Other words and phrases are defined. They are in	b. you ask us to insure it within 30 days
quotation marks when used.	after you become the owner; and
D.	"Bodily injury" means bodily harm, sickness or	c.	with respect to a pickup or van, no disease, including death that results.		other insurance policy provides
 
E.	"Business" includes trade, profession or occupa- tion.
 
coverage for that vehicle.
If the vehicle you acquire replaces one shown in the Declarations, it will have the
 
F.	"Family member" means a person related to	same coverage as the vehicle it replaced.
you by blood, marriage or adoption who is a	You must ask us to insure a replacement resident of your household. This includes a	vehicle within 30 days only if:
ward or foster child.
a.	you wish to add or continue Damage to
G.	"Occupying" means in, upon, getting in, on, out	Your Auto Coverages; or
or off.	b. it is a pickup or van used in any "busi-
 
H.	"Property damage" means physical injury to, destruction of or loss of use of tangible proper- ty.
 
ness" other than farming or ranching.
 
If the vehicle you acquire is in addition to	other vehicle described in this definition any shown in the Declarations, it will have	which is out of normal use because of its:
the broadest coverage we now provide for	a.    breakdown;	d. loss; or
any vehicle shown in the Declarations.
b.	repair;	e.    destruction.
3.	Any "trailer" you own.	c.	servicing;
4.	Any auto or "trailer" you do not own while used as a temporary substitute for any
LIABILITY
Coverage A - Bodily In jury Coverage B - Property Damage
INSURING AGREEMENT	SUPPLEMENTARY PAYMENTS
 
A.	We will pay damages for "bodily injury"
(Coverage A) or "property damage" (Coverage
 
In addition to our limit of liability, we will pay on behalf of an "insured":
 
B) for which any "insured" becomes legally	1.  Up to $250 for the cost of bail bonds re- responsible because of an auto accident.		quired because of an accident, including re- Damages include pre-judgment interest		lated traffic law violations. The accident awarded against the "insured". We will settle or		must result in "bodily injury" or "property defend, as we consider appropriate, any claim		damage" covered under this policy.
or suit asking for these damages. In addition to
 
our limit of liability, we will pay all defense costs we incur. Our duty to settle or defend
 
2. Premiums on appeal bonds and bonds to release attachments in any suit we defend.
 
ends when our limit of liability for these	3. Interest accruing after a judgment is coverages has been exhausted. We have no		entered in any suit we defend. Our duty to duty to defend any suit or settle any claim for		pay interest ends when we offer to pay that "bodily injury" or "property damage" not		part of the judgment which does not ex-
covered under this policy.	ceed our limit of liability for these
 
B.	"Insured" as used in these coverages means:
1.	You or any "family member" for the owner- ship, maintenance or use of any auto or
"trailer".
2.	Any person using "your covered auto".
3.	For "your covered auto", any person or or- ganization but only with respect to legal
 
coverages.
4.	Up to $50 a day for loss of earnings, but
not other income, because of attendance at hearings or trials at our request.
5.	Other reasonable expenses incurred at our request.
EXCLUSIONS
 
responsibility for acts or omissions of a per-	A. We do not provide Liability Coverages for any these Liability Coverages.
 
4. For any auto or "trailer", other than "your covered auto", any other person or or-
 
1.	Who intentionally causes "bodily injury" or "property damage".
 
ganization but only with respect to legal	2. For damage to property owned or being responsibility for acts or omissions of you		transported by that person.
or any "family member" for whom coverage	3.   For damage to property: is afforded under these Liability
 
Coverages. This provision (B.4.) applies
 
a.	rented to;
 
only if the person or organization does not	b. used by; or
own or hire the auto or "trailer".	c.	in the care of; that person.
 
This exclusion (A.3.) does not apply to	mination upon exhaustion of its limit of
damage to a residence or private garage.	liability.
4.	For "bodily injury" to an employee of that	A nuclear energy liability policy is a policy person during the course of employment.	issued by any of the following or their suc- This exclusion (A.4.) does not apply to	cessors:
"bodily injury" to a domestic employee un-	a.    American Nuclear Insurers;
less workers' compensation benefits are re-	b.    Mutual Atomic Energy Liability Under-
quired or available for that domestic	writers; or
 
5.	For that person's liability arising out of the ownership or operation of a vehicle while it
 
c.	Nuclear Insurance Association of Canada.
 
is being used to carry persons or property	B. We do not provide Liability Coverages for the for a fee. This exclusion (A.5.) does not		ownership, maintenance or use of:
apply to a share-the-expense car pool.	1.    Any motorized vehicle having fewer than
6.	While employed or otherwise engaged in	four wheels.
the "business" of:	2.    Any vehicle, other than "your covered
a.	selling;	d.   storing; or	auto", which is:
b.	repairing;	e.   parking;	a.   owned by you; or
c.	servicing;	b.   furnished or available for your regular
 
vehicles designed for use mainly on public
 
use.
 
highways. This includes road testing and	3. Any vehicle, other than "your covered delivery. This exclusion (A.6.) does not		auto", which is:
apply to the ownership, maintenance or use	a.   owned by any "family member"; or
 
a.	you;
b.	any "family member"; or
c.	any partner, agent or employee of you or any "family member".
 
b. furnished or available for the regular use of any "family member".
However, this exclusion (B.3.) does not apply to your maintenance or use of any vehicle which is:
 
7.	Maintaining or using any vehicle while that	a.   owned by a "family member"; or
person is employed or otherwise engaged	b. furnished or available for the regular ranching) not described in Exclusion A.6.
This exclusion (A.7.) does not apply to the	LIMIT OF LIABILITY
maintenance or use of a:
 
a.	private passenger auto;
b.	pickup or van that you own; or
c.	"trailer" used with a vehicle described in a. or b. above.
 
A.	Single Liability Limit
1.	If the Declarations show a single limit of liability for Coverage A and Coverage B combined, this limit is our maximum limit of liability for all damages for "bodily in-
 
8.	Using a vehicle without a reasonable belief	jury" and "property damage" resulting from that that person is entitled to do so.	any one auto accident. This is the most we
 
9.	For "bodily injury" or "property damage" for which that person:
a.	is an insured under a nuclear energy
 
will pay regardless of the number of:
a.	"Insureds";
b.	Claims made;
 
liability policy; or	c.	Vehicles or premiums shown in the
 
b. would be an insured under a nuclear energy liability policy but for its ter-
 
Declarations; or
 
d.    Vehicles involved in the auto accident.	OUT OF STATE COVERAGE
2.   We will apply the limit of liability to pro-	If an auto accident to which this policy applies oc- vide any separate limits required by law for	curs in any state or province other than the one in bodily injury and property damage liability.	which "your covered auto" is principally garaged,
However, this provision (A.2.) will not	we will interpret your policy for that accident as fol- change our total limit of liability.	lows:
B.	Split Liability Limits	A. If the state or province has:
 
If the Declarations show separate limits of liability for Coverage A and Coverage B, the limit of liability shown in the Declarations for each person for Coverage A is our maximum limit of liability for all damages, including
 
1.	A financial responsibility or similar law specifying limits of liability for "bodily in- jury" or "property damage" higher than the limit shown in the Declarations, your policy will provide the higher specified limit.
 
damages for care, loss of services or death, aris-	2. A compulsory insurance or similar law re- ing out of "bodily injury" sustained by any one		quiring a nonresident to maintain insurance person in any one auto accident. Subject to this		whenever the nonresident uses a vehicle in limit for each person, the limit of liability		that state or province, your policy will pro- shown in the Declarations for each accident		vide at least the required minimum
for Coverage A is our maximum limit of	amounts and types of coverage.
liability for all damages for "bodily injury"
 
resulting from any one auto accident. The limit
of liability shown in the Declarations for each accident for Coverage B is our maximum limit of liability for all "property damage" resulting
 
B.   No one will be entitled to duplicate payments
for the same elements of loss.
FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
 
from any one auto accident. These limits are	When this policy is certified as future proof of the most we will pay regardless of the number	financial responsibility, this policy shall comply of:	with the law to the extent required.
1.	"Insureds";	OTHER INSURANCE
2.	Claims made;	If there is other applicable liability insurance we
3.	Vehicles or premiums shown in the Decla-	will pay only our share of the loss. Our share is the rations; or	proportion that our limit of liability bears to the
 
4.	Vehicles involved in the auto accident.
 
total of all applicable limits. However, any in- surance we provide for a vehicle you do not own shall be excess over any other collectible insurance.
 
 
MEDICAL PAYMENTS
Coverage C
INSURING AGREEMENT	B. "Insured" as used in this coverage means:
 
A.	We will pay reasonable expenses incurred for
 
1.	You or any "family member":
 
necessary medical and funeral services because	a. while "occupying"; or
of "bodily injury":	b.   as a pedestrian when struck by;
1.	Caused by accident; and	a motor vehicle designed for use mainly on
2.	Sustained by an "insured".	public roads or a trailer of any type.
 
We will pay only those expenses incurred within 3 years from the date of the accident.
 
2. Any other person while "occupying" "your covered auto".
 
EXCLUSIONS	c.	civil war;
 
We do not provide Medical Payments Coverage
 
d.	insurrection; or
 
for any person for "bodily injury":	e.    rebellion or revolution.
1.	Sustained while "occupying" any motorized	10. From or as a consequence of the following, vehicle having fewer than four wheels.		whether controlled or uncontrolled or how-
 
2.	Sustained while "occupying" "your covered
 
ever caused:
 
auto" when it is being used to carry persons	a.    nuclear reaction;
or property for a fee. This exclusion (2.)	b.   radiation; or
does not apply to a share-the-expense car
 
pool.
3.	Sustained while "occupying" any vehicle lo-
 
c.	radioactive   contamination.
LIMIT OF LIABILITY
 
cated for use as a residence or premises.	A. The limit of liability shown in the Declarations
4.	Occurring during the course of employ-	for this coverage is our maximum limit of
ment if workers' compensation benefits are	liability for each person injured in any one acci- required or available for the "bodily injury".	dent. This is the most we will pay regardless of
 
5.	Sustained while "occupying", or when
 
the number of:
 
struck by, any vehicle (other than "your	1. "Insureds";
covered auto") which is:	2. Claims made;
a.	owned by you; or
 
b.	furnished or available for your regular use.
6.	Sustained while "occupying", or when
 
3.	Vehicles or premiums shown in the Decla- rations; or
4.	Vehicles involved in the accident.
 
struck by, any vehicle (other than "your	We will, however, double the applicable limit covered auto") which is:	of liability for you or any "family member" if
 
a.	owned by any "family member"; or
b.	furnished or available for the regular
 
wearing a properly installed seat belt at the time of the accident.
 
use of any "family member".	B.   Any amounts otherwise payable for expenses
 
However, this exclusion (6.) does not apply to you.
7.	Sustained while "occupying" a vehicle
without a reasonable belief that that per- son is entitled to do so.
 
under this coverage shall be reduced by any amounts paid or payable for the same expenses under Coverage A or Coverage D.
C. No payment will be made unless the injured person or that person's legal representative
agrees in writing that any payment shall be ap-
 
8.	Sustained while "occupying" a vehicle when it	plied toward any settlement or judgment that is being used in the "business" of an "insured".	person receives under Coverage A or
This exclusion (8.) does not apply to "bodily	Coverage D.
injury" sustained while "occupying" a:
 
a.	private passenger auto;
b.	pickup or van that you own; or
c.	"trailer" used with a vehicle described in a. or b. above.
 
OTHER INSURANCE
If there is other applicable auto medical payments insurance we will pay only our share of the loss.
Our share is the proportion that our limit of liability bears to the total of all applicable limits.
 
9.	Caused by or as a consequence of:	However, any insurance we provide with respect to
 
a.	discharge of a nuclear weapon (even if accidental);
b.	war (declared or undeclared);
 
a vehicle you do not own shall be excess over any other collectible auto insurance providing pay- ments for medical or funeral expenses.
 
 
UNINSURED MOTORISTS
Coverage D
INSURING AGREEMENT	c.	"your covered auto".
 
A.	We will pay damages which an "insured" is legal- ly entitled to recover from the owner or
operator of an "uninsured motor vehicle" be-
 
4.	To which a bodily injury liability bond or policy applies at the time of the accident but the bonding or insuring company:
 
cause of "bodily injury":	a.   denies coverage; or
1.	Sustained by an "insured"; and	b.   is or becomes insolvent.
2.	Caused by an accident.	However, "uninsured motor vehicle" does not
 
The owner's or operator's liability for these
 
include any vehicle or equipment:
 
damages must arise out of the ownership, main-	1. Owned by or furnished or available for the tenance or use of the "uninsured motor		regular use of you or any "family member". vehicle".	2. Owned or operated by a self-insurer under
 
Any judgment for damages arising out of a suit
 
any applicable motor vehicle law.
 
brought without our written consent is not	3. Owned by any governmental unit or agency. binding on us.
 
B.	"Insured" as used in this coverage means:
 
4.	Operated on rails or crawler treads.
5.	Designed mainly for use off public roads
 
1.	You or any "family member".	while not on public roads.
2.	Any other person "occupying" "your	6. While located for use as a residence or covered auto".		premises.
3.	Any person for damages that person is en-	EXCLUSIONS
titled to recover because of "bodily injury"
to which this coverage applies sustained by	A.   We do not provide Uninsured Motorists
a person described in 1. or 2. above.	Coverage for "bodily injury" sustained by any
 
C.	"Uninsured motor vehicle" means a land motor vehicle or trailer of any type:
1.	To which no bodily injury liability bond or policy applies at the time of the accident.
2.	To which a bodily injury liability bond or
 
person:
1.	While "occupying", or when struck by, any motor vehicle owned by you or any "family member" which is not insured for this coverage under this policy. This includes a trailer of any type used with that vehicle.
 
policy applies at the time of the accident.	2.    If that person or the legal representative In this case its limits for bodily injury		settles the "bodily injury" claim without our
liability must be less than the minimum	consent.
limits for bodily injury liability specified by
 
the financial responsibility law of the state
in which "your covered auto" is principally garaged.
3.	Which is a hit and run vehicle whose
operator or owner cannot be identified and which hits:
a.	you or any "family member";
b.	a vehicle which you or any "family mem- ber" are "occupying"; or
 
3.	While "occupying" "your covered auto"
when it is being used to carry persons or property for a fee. This exclusion (A.3.) does not apply to a share-the-expense car pool.
4.	Using a vehicle without a reasonable belief that that person is entitled to do so.
 
B.	This coverage shall not apply directly or in-	may be legally responsible. This includes all directly to benefit any insurer or self-insurer	sums paid under Coverage A; and
under any of the following or similar law:	2.    Paid or payable because of the "bodily in-
1.	workers' compensation law; or	jury" under any of the following or similar
 
2.	disability benefits law.
 
law:
a.	workers' compensation law; or
 
LIMIT OF LIABILITY	b.   disability benefits law.
A.	Single Limit	D.   Any payment under this coverage will reduce
 
If the Declarations show a single limit of liability for Coverage D, this limit is our maximum limit
 
any amount that person is entitled to recover for the same damages under Coverage A.
 
of liability for all damages for "bodily injury" resulting from any one accident. This is the most
we will pay regardless of the number of:	If there is other applicable similar insurance we
 
1.	"Insureds";
 
will pay only our share of the loss. Our share is the proportion that our limit of liability bears to the
 
2.	Claims made;	total of all applicable limits. However, any in-
 
3.	Vehicles or premiums shown in the Decla- rations; or
4.	Vehicles involved in the accident.
B.	Split Limits
If the Declarations show separate limits of liability for each person and each accident, the limit of liability shown for each person for
 
surance we provide with respect to a vehicle you do not own shall be excess over any other collec- tible insurance.
ARBITRATION
A.	If we and an "insured" do not agree:
1.	Whether that person is legally entitled to recover damages under this coverage; or
 
Uninsured Motorists Coverage is our maximum	2. As to the amount of damages; limit of liability for all damages, including
 
damages for care, loss of services or death, aris- ing out of "bodily injury" sustained by any one
person in any one accident. Subject to this limit for each person, the limit of liability shown in the Declarations for each accident for Unin- sured Motorists Coverage is our maximum limit
 
either party may make a written demand for ar-
bitration. In this event, each party will select an arbitrator. The two arbitrators will select a
third. If they cannot agree within 30 days, either may request that selection be made by a judge of a court having jurisdiction.
 
of liability for all damages for "bodily injury"	B. Each party will: resulting from any one accident. These limits
are the most we will pay regardless of the num-	1.   Pay the expenses it incurs; and
ber of:	2.    Bear the expenses of the third arbitrator
1.	"Insureds";	equally.
2.	Claims made;	C.   Unless both parties agree otherwise, arbitra-
 
3.	Vehicles or premiums shown in the Decla- rations; or
 
tion will take place in the county in which the "insured" lives. Local rules of law as to proce- dure and evidence will apply. A decision
 
4.	Vehicles involved in the accident.	agreed to by two of the arbitrators will be bind-
 
C.   Any amounts otherwise payable for damages
 
ing as to:
 
under this coverage shall be reduced by all	1. Whether the "insured" is legally entitled to sums:		recover damages; and
1.    Paid because of the "bodily injury" by or on	2. The amount of damages. This applies only behalf of persons or organizations who		if the amount does not exceed the mini-
mum limit for bodily injury liability
 
specified by the financial responsibility law	If this demand is not made, the amount of of the state in which "your covered auto" is	damages agreed to by the arbitrators will be principally garaged. If the amount exceeds	binding.
that limit, either party may demand the
 
right to a trial. This demand must be made within 60 days of the arbitrators' decision.
 
D.   Instead of this method, we and the "insured" may agree to use another method of arbitration.
 
 
DAMAGE TO YOUR AUTO
Coverage E - Collision Coverage F - Comprehensive
(Other than Collision) Coverage G - Rental Reimbursement Coverage I - Towing and Labor Costs
INSURING AGREEMENT	However, this coverage does not apply when there is a total theft of the auto.
A.	Collision and Comprehensive (Other than Col-
lision). We will pay for direct and accidental	Our payment will be limited to that period of loss to "your covered auto" or any "non-owned	time reasonably required to repair or replace auto", including their equipment, minus any ap-	the auto. We will pay up to the amount per day plicable deductible shown in the Declarations.	to a maximum amount as shown in the Declara- We will pay for loss to "your covered auto"	tions.
caused by:
C. Towing and Labor Costs. We will pay towing
1.	"Collision" only if the Declarations indicate	and labor costs incurred each time "your
that Coverage E - Collision is provided	covered auto" or any "non-owned auto" is dis- for that auto.	abled, up to the limit of liability shown in the
 
2.	Other than "collision" only if the Declara- tions indicate that Coverage F - Com-
prehensive is provided for that auto.
 
Declarations for Coverage I - Towing and Labor Costs as applicable to that vehicle. If a "non-owned auto" is disabled, we will provide the broadest towing and labor costs coverage
 
If there is loss to a "non-owned auto", we will	applicable to any "your covered auto" shown in provide the broadest coverage applicable to	the Declarations. We will only pay for labor any "your covered auto" shown in the Declara-	performed at the place of disablement.
tions.
D. "Collision" means the upset of "your covered
B.	Rental Reimbursement. When there is a loss	auto" or its impact with another vehicle or ob- to one of "your covered autos" described in the	ject. Loss caused by the following is considered Declarations for which a specific premium	other than "collision":
charge indicates that Coverage G - Rental	1.   Missiles or	7. Malicious mischief Reimbursement is afforded:		falling objects;		or vandalism;
 
We will reimburse you for expenses you incur to rent a substitute auto. This coverage applies only if:
 
2.	Fire;	8. Riot or civil
3.	Theft or larceny;	commotion;
4.	Explosion or	9. Contact with bird or earthquake;		animal; or
 
1.	The auto is withdrawn from use for more	5.    Windstorm;	10. Breakage of glass. than 24 hours; and	6. Hail, water or
 
2.	The loss is caused by "collision" or covered
 
flood;
 
under Coverage F - Comprehensive of	If breakage of glass is caused by a "collision" this policy.	you may elect to have it considered a loss
caused by "collision".
 
E.	"Non-owned auto" means any private pas-	d. civil war;
senger auto, pickup, van or "trailer" not owned	e.   insurrection; or
by or furnished or available for the regular use
 
of you or any "family member" while in the cus-
 
f.	rebellion or revolution.
 
tody of or being operated by you or any "family	4.  Loss to equipment designed for the member". However, "non-owned auto" does		reproduction of sound. This exclusion (4.) not include any vehicle used as a temporary		does not apply if the equipment is per- substitute for a vehicle you own which is out of		manently installed in "your covered auto" normal use because of its:		or any "non-owned auto".
1.	Breakdown;	4.   Loss; or	5.    Loss to tapes, records or other devices for
 
2.	Repair;	5.    Destruction.
 
use with equipment designed for the reproduction of sound.
 
3.	Servicing;	6.   Loss to a camper body or "trailer" you own
 
TRANSPORTATION EXPENSES
 
which is not shown in the Declarations. This exclusion (6.) does not apply to a
 
In addition, under Coverage F we will pay up to	camper body or "trailer" you:
$15 per day, to a maximum of $450, for transporta-
 
tion expenses incurred by you. This applies only in
 
a.	acquire during the policy period; and
 
the event of the total theft of "your covered auto".	b. ask us to insure within 30 days after We will pay only transportation expenses incurred		you become the owner.
during the period:	7.    Loss to any "non-owned auto" or any
1.	Beginning 48 hours after the theft; and	vehicle used as a temporary substitute for a
 
2.	Ending when "your covered auto" is
returned to use or when we pay or offer to pay for its loss.
 
vehicle you own, when used by you or any "family member" without a reasonable belief that you or that "family member" are entitled to do so.
 
EXCLUSIONS	8. Loss to:
We will not pay for:	a.   TV antennas;
1.	Loss to "your covered auto" which occurs	b. awnings or cabanas; or
while it is used to carry persons or property	c.	equipment designed to create addition- for a fee. This exclusion (1.) does not apply		al living facilities.
to a share-the-expense car pool.
9.   Loss to any of the following or their acces-
2.	Damage due and confined to:	sories:
a.	wear and tear;	a.   citizens band radio;
b.	freezing;	b. two-way mobile radio;
c.	mechanical or electrical breakdown or	c.	telephone; or
failure; or	d.    scanning monitor receiver.
d.	road damage to tires.
This exclusion (9.) does not apply if the This exclusion (2.) does not apply if the	equipment is permanently installed in the damage results from the total theft of "your	opening of the dash or console of "your covered auto".	covered auto" or any "non-owned auto".
 
3.	Loss due to or as a consequence of:
a.	radioactive contamination;
 
This opening must be normally used by the
auto manufacturer for the installation of a radio.
 
b.	discharge of any nuclear weapon (even	10. Loss to equipment designed or used for the if accidental);		detection or location of radar.
c.	war (declared or undeclared);
 
11.	Loss to any "non-owned auto" being main-	LOSS PAYABLE CLAUSE
tained or used by any person while	Loss or damage under this policy shall be paid, as employed or otherwise engaged in the	interest may appear, to you and the loss payee "business" of:	shown in the Declarations. This insurance with
a.	selling;	d.   storing; or	respect to the interest of the loss payee, shall not
 
b.	repairing;	e.    parking;
c.	servicing;
 
become invalid because of your fraudulent acts or omissions unless the loss results from your conver- sion, secretion or embezzlement of "your covered
 
vehicles designed for use on public high-	auto". However, we reserve the right to cancel the ways. This includes road testing and	policy as permitted by policy terms and the cancel- delivery.	lation shall terminate this agreement as to the loss
 
12.	Loss to any "non-owned auto" being main- tained or used by any person while
employed or otherwise engaged in any
 
payee's interest. We will mail the loss payee writ-
ten notice at least 10 days before the effective date of cancellation.
 
"business" not described in exclusion 11.	When we pay the loss payee we shall, to the extent This exclusion (12.) does not apply to the	of payment, be subrogated to the loss payee's maintenance or use by you or any "family	rights of recovery.
member" of a "non-owned auto" which is a
 
private passenger auto or "trailer".
LIMIT OF LIABILITY
A.	Our limit of liability for loss will be the lesser of the:
1.	Actual cash value of the stolen or damaged property; or
 
NO BENEFIT TO BAILEE
This insurance shall not directly or indirectly benefit any carrier or other bailee for hire.
OTHER INSURANCE
If other insurance also covers the loss we will pay only our share of the loss. Our share is the propor- tion that our limit of liability bears to the total of
 
2.	Amount necessary to repair or replace the	all applicable limits. However, any insurance we
property with like kind and quality.	provide with respect to a "non-owned auto" or any
 
However, the most we will pay for loss to any "non-owned auto" which is a "trailer" is $500.
B.	An adjustment for depreciation and physical condition will be made in determining actual
 
vehicle used as a temporary substitute for a vehicle you own shall be excess over any other collectible insurance.
APPRAISAL
 
cash value at the time of loss.	A. If we and you do not agree on the amount of
 
PAYMENT OF LOSS
 
loss, either may demand an appraisal of the loss. In this event, each party will select a com-
 
We may pay for loss in money or repair or replace	petent appraiser. The two appraisers will select the damaged or stolen property. We may, at our ex-	an umpire. The appraisers will state separately pense, return any stolen property to:	the actual cash value and the amount of loss. If
 
1.	You; or
 
they fail to agree, they will submit their dif- ferences to the umpire. A decision agreed to by
 
2.	The address shown in this policy.	any two will be binding. Each party will:
If we return stolen property we will pay for any	1. Pay its chosen appraiser; and damage resulting from the theft. We may keep all
 
or part of the property at an agreed or appraised value.
 
2.    Bear the expenses of the appraisal and um-
pire equally.
B. We do not waive any of our rights under this policy by agreeing to an appraisal.
 
 
DUTIES AFTER AN ACCIDENT OR LOSS
GENERAL DUTIES	ADDITIONAL DUTIES FOR UNINSURED MOTORISTS COVERAGE
 
A.	We must be notified promptly of how, when
and where the accident or loss happened.
Notice should also include the names and ad-
 
A person seeking Uninsured Motorists Coverage must also:
 
dresses of any injured persons and of any wit-	1. Promptly notify the police if a hit and run nesses.		driver is involved.
B.	A person seeking any coverage must:	2.    Promptly send us copies of the legal papers
 
1.	Cooperate with us in the investigation, set-
 
if a suit is brought.
 
tlement or defense of any claim or suit.	ADDITIONAL DUTIES FOR COLLISION AND
2.	Promptly send us copies of any notices or	COMPREHENSIVE COVERAGES
legal papers received in connection with	A person seeking coverage for Collision or Com- the accident or loss.	prehensive (Other than Collision) must also:
3.	Submit, as often as we reasonably require:	1.    Take reasonable steps after loss to protect
a.	to physical exams by physicians we	"your covered auto" and its equipment select. We will pay for these exams.	from further loss. We will pay reasonable
 
b.	to examination under oath and sub-
 
expenses incurred to do this.
 
scribe the same.	2.   Promptly notify the police if "your covered
 
4.	Authorize us to obtain:
 
auto" is stolen.
 
a.	medical reports; and	3.   Permit us to inspect and appraise the
 
b.	other pertinent  records.
5.	Submit a proof of loss when required by us.
 
damaged property before its repair or dis- posal.
 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
BANKRUPTCY	FRAUD
Bankruptcy or insolvency of the "insured" shall not	We do not provide coverage for any "insured" who relieve us of any obligations under this policy.	has made fraudulent statements or engaged in
fraudulent conduct in connection with any accident
CHANGES	or loss for which coverage is sought under this
 
This policy contains all the agreements between
 
policy.
 
you and us. Its terms may not be changed or waived except by endorsement issued by us. If a change re-
quires a premium adjustment, we will adjust the	A. No legal action may be brought against us until premium as of the effective date of change accord-		there has been full compliance with all the
ing to the manuals then in use by us.	terms of this policy. In addition, under the
 
We may revise this policy form to provide more coverage without additional premium charge. If we
 
Liability Coverages, no legal action may be brought against us until:
 
do this your policy will automatically provide the	1. We agree in writing that the "insured" has additional coverage as of the date the revision is ef-		an obligation to pay; or
fective in your state.	2.    The amount of that obligation has been
finally determined by judgment after trial.
 
B.	No person or organization has any right under	TERMINATION
this policy to bring us into any action to deter-
 
mine the liability of an "insured".
 
A.	Cancellation. This policy may be cancelled during the policy period as follows:
 
OUR RIGHT TO RECOVER PAYMENT	1.   The named insured shown in the Declara-
 
A.	If we make a payment under this policy and the
 
tions may cancel by:
 
person to or for whom payment was made has	a.   returning this policy to us; or
a right to recover damages from another we	b. giving us advance written notice of the shall be subrogated to that right. That person		date cancellation is to take effect. shall do:
2.	We may cancel by mailing to the named in-
1.	Whatever is necessary to enable us to exer-	sured shown in the Declarations at the ad- cise our rights; and	dress shown there:
2.	Nothing after loss to prejudice them.	a.   at least 10 days notice:
 
However, our rights in this paragraph (A.) do not apply, under the Damage to Your Auto Coverages, against any person using "your
covered auto" with a reasonable belief that that person is entitled to do so.
B.	If we make a payment under this policy and the person to or for whom payment is made
 
(1)	if cancellation is for nonpayment of premium; or
(2)	if notice is mailed during the first 60 days this policy is in effect and
this is not a continuation policy; or
b. at least 30 days notice in all other cases.
3.	After this policy is in effect for 60 days, or
 
recovers damages from another, that person	if this is a continuation policy, we will can- shall:	cel only:
 
1.	Hold in trust for us the proceeds of the
 
a.	for nonpayment of premium; or
 
recovery; and	b.   if your driver's license or that of:
 
2.	Reimburse us to the extent of our payment.
 
(1)	any driver who lives with you; or
(2)	any driver who customarily uses
 
POLICY PERIOD AND TERRITORY	"your covered auto";
 
A.	This policy applies only to accidents and losses which occur:
1.	During the policy period as shown in the Declarations; and
 
has been suspended or revoked. This must have occurred:
(1)	during the policy period; or
(2)	since the last anniversary of the original effective date if the policy
 
2.	Within the policy territory.	period is other than 1 year; or
B.	The policy period, and each successive policy	c.	if the policy was obtained through period, begins and ends at 12:01 a.m. standard		material misrepresentation.
time at your address.	4.    Nonpayment of Premium. Nonpayment of
 
C.	The policy territory is:
 
premium shall mean failure to pay any premium or premium installment when due
 
1.	The United States of America, its ter-	whether payable directly to us or through a
ritories or possessions;	premium financing plan or credit extension.
2.	Puerto Rico; or	B. Termination. If we decide not to continue this
3.	Canada.	policy, we will mail notice to the named insured
 
This policy also applies to loss to, or accidents involving, "your covered auto" while being
transported between their ports.
 
shown in the Declarations at the address shown there. Notice will be mailed at least 30 days
before the end of the policy period. If the policy period is other than 1 year, we will have
the right not to continue it only at each anniver- sary of its original effective date. If that date is
 
the 29th, 30th, or 31st of a month, we may con-	manuals. However, making or offering to sider the first day of the next month to be this	make the refund is not a condition of can- anniversary.	cellation.
 
C. Automatic Termination. If we offer to con- tinue and you or your representative do not ac- cept, this policy will automatically terminate
 
4.	The effective date of cancellation stated in the notice shall become the end of the policy period.
 
without notice of termination at the end of the current policy period. Failure to pay the re- quired continuation premium when due shall
mean that you have not accepted our offer.	A. Your rights and duties under this policy may
 
If you obtain other insurance on "your covered auto", any similar insurance provided by this
policy will terminate as to that auto on the ef-
 
not be assigned without our written consent. However, if a named insured shown in the Dec- larations dies, coverage will be provided for:
 
fective date of the other insurance.	1. The surviving spouse if resident in the same
 
D. Other Termination Provisions.
 
household at the time of death. Coverage ap- plies to the spouse as if a named insured
 
1.	If the law in effect in your state at the time	shown in the Declarations; and
this policy is issued or continued:	2.  The legal representative of the deceased
a.	requires a longer notice period;	person as if a named insured shown in the
 
b.	requires a special form of or procedure for giving notice; or
c.	modifies any of the stated termination
 
Declarations. This applies only with respect to the representative's legal responsibility to maintain or use "your covered auto".
 
reasons;	B.  Coverage will only be provided until the next
 
we will comply with those requirements.
2.	We may deliver any notice instead of mail-
 
anniversary of the policy's original effective date.
 
ing it. Proof of mailing of any notice shall	TWO OR MORE AUTO POLICIES
be sufficient proof of notice.	If this policy and any other auto insurance policy is-
3.	If this policy is cancelled, you may be en-	sued to you by us apply to the same accident, the titled to a premium refund. If so, we will	maximum limit of our liability under all the policies send you the refund. The premium refund,	shall not exceed the highest applicable limit of
if any, will be computed according to our	liability under any one policy.
This policy is signed for the member company of Travelers which is the insurer under this policy.
abcd	 
Wendy C. Skjerven	Gregory C. Toczydlowski
 
Corporate Secretary
 
President
Personal Insurance
 
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, with its permission. Copyright, Insurance Ser- vices Office, 1985
Edition 6 of Policy forms
PL-6000 3-87	Page 13 of 13	101 and LP
 
 
 
 